For me actually for the same steps I
have stopped uh previously on the
optional parts I have switched to the
other task. So two optional things still
there for me.
Okay. So the nonoptional part is on your
site. Okay. And you understand what's
going on there?
More or less.
Okay. Nick. Nick. What about you?
Um, I have not started yet. So, I'm
planning on working on it this morning
and hopefully get it finished up.
Okay. Okay. So, guys, uh, please keep
working. Uh, when somebody else joins
join the meeting, I will ask them too.
So, uh, we have like an hour more for
this. So, probably in 45 minutes from
now, I'll just show you
Uh solution for the optional part.
[Music]
Hi Vladimir. Uh can you tell me your
status on the practice from the import
export?
One second. I need to refresh my
[Music]
Okay. So, in general, we still have like
an hour for this. So, now you have a
time to finish. Um, just asking what
what point you stopped yesterday.
Okay.
Uh so I have uh finished required part
and uh
now I'm working on optional just
started.
Okay. Yeah sure. So uh we have an hour
for this. In about 45 minutes, I'll just
start showing you
um the optional part all the whole
depending on your status upd.
Okay.
Hi Sandep. We're finishing the practice
for import export right now up to my 3
p.m.
Exactly.
Yeah, sure.
So,
so how long it may take?
After 3 p.m. So then about 3 p.m. plus a
break. So let's say in about an hour
I'll start on the next uh topic about
workflows.
Oh, okay. Okay.
No problem. So let me join in 1 hour
then.
Okay.
Okay. Thank you so much.
Yeah, sure.
Yes. And the validation is only for
import.
Yeah. Because when you export, you're
not doing anything. So you're just
basically exporting what's inside the
database. There's no need to validate
anything.
I see. Okay.
Uh hi Anand. will we are doing the
practice actually finishing the practice
for the import export and we have a time
up till 3 p.m. my time. So 45 more
minutes then I'll do the break. So in
about an hour from now we'll start the
new theory topic about workflows.
Okay. Exactly. No issue.
Yeah.
Okay guys uh can you tell me your status
now? Do you have any questions? Uh
anything that I can help you with?
Yeah. So I was I got the required pieces
done and I was working on the import
template
optional piece. I'm I'm looking at the
example from the slides and the
definition is not making sense. How how
does it know to use the fixture class
when doing the data conversion? It I
can't find like so in the coupon example
it's oro promotion.imp import
export.template_fixture.coupon.
That's not referenced anywhere. Is there
some sort of automatic
magic going on that says look for
something with that service name and use
it as the data or use it as the fixture.
Yeah. So that's uh basically by tag.
Okay. So all the templates fixtures are
tagged with this or import export
template fixture and then we have just
repository of all the fixtures available
and then basically they are picked by
the entity.
Okay. So in the fixture I have to tell
it I support these entities.
Yeah, basically you're just doing this
by uh returning appropriate entity
class.
Uh I see this. Yeah. And later if you
check the definition for the um
processor export template processor it
also has their um a tag and you specify
entity there. So basically it's matched
all
together. Yeah. So I can I can handle
multiple
like some magic inside but it's a a
little bit visible.
Yeah. It's just the tagging. So like I
was I was so focused on the
configuration I didn't even look at the
fixture class to see that oh it's saying
I my the get entity class method returns
the entity that you support.
So, okay.
And then it knows that, okay, as it goes
through all the fixtures, if it finds
one that matches the entity type, it'll
I'm assuming run the get data method.
Or I need to check exactly in the import
export bundle because there's probably
some uh class that keeps the collection
of for the template fixtures and then
you can find the logic how this is
selected. So, I don't know this by
heart.
Oh, that's fine. I just like I can see
now how it's linked together like how it
knows that this fixture goes with my
usernaming site because I'm going to
tell it.
So it just in the config there was
nothing linking it to anything else and
I was kind of like how is this going to
load? But it makes more sense now.
Jacine from my side I'm not sure. I I
have created the
validation YAML but I'm not sure where
it should be registered also I have
created this
but also I'm getting the content light
didn't fail it and I not sure how to
test it I can share my screen to show
yeah please do I will show you uh in
this case in a moment the whole optional
part uh and explain it step by step
because as you all have the nonoptional
part ready. So
right so that is my validation which I
found I believe in the lead or something
else. So the configuration looks okay
but I didn't found whether it's
validation
it's handled by the symfony so you don't
need to load it or any do anything with
it. You just need to place the file and
name it correctly and Symfony actually
is handling this validation. So this is
nothing custom to for to or anything
that's uh symfony file and basically
yeah some Symfony component probably
validation component is responsible for
loading those files. You don't need to
add them anywhere.
Okay. So it should work for this class
entity actually if if I'm have it.
Mhm. So now when you try to import uh
usernaming types and for example specify
title blank then you should get an error
and this uh row will not be imported.
Okay. So the next step I did there
actually it was there previously. So I
did added this service is this actually
there is probably there is a wrong name.
Um,
it's correct.
That's fine. Uh, and there is the
picture.
Mhm.
from in my case it it was like showing
me
this.
Mhm. So probably there's some error
and we can check actually what error in
if it it will not load I will ask you to
execute one command so we can check what
the error is
because there will be in logs
and logs are in v logs.
So
it's
building the DA container. So it can
take a while.
Okay, now it's better. So if I'll try to
click this stuff,
I'm getting something expected.
Um okay. So did you addit export
template processor?
So for to create
um
so you have export processor, you have
import processor but you still need to
add um export template processor. An
example of this processor you can find
on the slides from the theory.
It's uh all on the slide
on the slide about import template
fixture.
It's not this.
Uh this is uh
actually you have as the last one it's
export template processor from line 69
to line 74 you've got export template
processor
and here you need also custom data
converter because it's fetching data not
from database but from your fixture.
Sure.
Um yeah. So on this part
just fix indentation. Yeah.
[Music]
Yeah. You need to create data converter.
So go back to the slides uh to the code
and this data converter just has
different parent because parent is
template fixture. So yeah,
just change the name of the services
and pass the data converter that you
created in line 39 to your processor.
No, the parent is okay. The data
converter needs to be set to the one
that you created.
Okay.
And this is the processor type export
template. Uh you still need to change
the entity
and
uh give it some alias.
and this alias needs to be also in your
configuration class. So the import
export configuration
export processor you already added that
okay so that's why
type
so that's why buttons were rendered
correctly but when you click the button
they will trying to reach this processor
and it didn't exist.
Okay. Yes, I need to
check something download it.
[Music]
Title
and in order to import I should use this
the same labeling.
Yeah. So, it's good to have translations
right now because by default, as you
basically see, uh we're using
translations here.
See the messages
resources translations.
[Music]
Okay, but it's basically working. You
just need to play around with
translations to have different headers
or you can even define heers uh on the
entity level if you prefer this way. Uh
so that's like some additional thing,
right? So the question how to import and
if the validation is working that's the
question but you're saying that it's
working so it's the only things needed
is this file.
Mhm. Yeah. Now if you test uh import uh
then you should not be able to import
empty value.
Okay. or or a longer value than 64
format label.
Okay. Uh I will take over the screen and
this from the scratch for everybody to
uh to be on the same page. So as you are
already with uh all the nonoptional
parts
uh so you basically have import exports
just not with the
uh template. So that's
uh like fine on your side. And regarding
the optional parts
uh so first was to add a entity
validation
uh for title and format that they should
not be empty and have proper length. Uh
so this file is inside resources config
here this is symfony validation. So
symfony will handle this file and apply
this validation for us. import export is
um is going to use this validation
because we're submitting
entities through form types and uh this
is basically it. So per entity and for
each property we need to specify some
constraints and this supposed to be not
blank for both and appropriate length.
So our title was 64 our format was 255
and when I have this you can test it. Uh
let me
check my consumers.
Okay. So let me test something. Actually
I think I did export last time.
So
That's not it.
Okay, let me do the export one more
time.
Okay,
so my export file
it's here.
So let me just remove I will just add
one row
and name it
first. H actually
I want to it to be empty first.
Okay,
let's try to import it. Uh, that will be
here.
Yeah, this is better.
a lot of projects
and it's here and it's
inside our data. I should probably do
some shortcut
and modify
this one. Okay,
let's try to import it
and let's check my
I didn't test it before, so I hope
uh error log
title this value should not be blank.
Okay,
so it was processed and we have an
error.
Uh, okay. And then the last part was to
create import template. Uh so for this I
will actually follow slide. So we need
to create the uh template file that will
extend abstract template repository and
implement template fixture interface. We
need to register it in the
DI container with this tag. And also for
this we need to create this fourth
processor which is of type export
template. And this processor needs a
separate data uh converter.
Uh so for this we have uh first the
template picture. So this is PHP class
that extends
uh abstract template repository
from our import export bundle and
implement temperate fixture interface.
And here we need to specify a few uh
elements. So the entity class that this
template supports uh then how to create
your entity this is used by the parent
class
and then in the get data method you
return exactly this one single row with
dummy data uh and filling this dummy
data is inside fill entity data. So for
this particular uh tag uh we're just
basically setting title and format to
some example one. When we have this
then we need to add it to uh the
container. So we're basically adding our
class. For me I'm using class name as a
service in this case and I need to tag
it with oro import export template
fixture. Uh for this I need to create
one more uh processor and this is export
template processor. So this is my
processor.
It has a parent export processor export
abstract and here we need to have
different data converters. So we cannot
re reuse the one that we have in import
processor and in standard export
processor because this one uh is
actually using data from our fixture. So
this service was also first created and
the parent is a bit different. It's uh
data converter template fixture
configurable. So we created data
converter then our processor where we
need to set this data converter and this
processor needs to be tagged with autoo
import export processor type export
template. We are going to create a dummy
data of our username type entity and we
need to give it some alias and for this
button to be rendered we need to specify
that this processor exists in our
configuration.
So in my configuration file the
additional line is this one. So we are
specifying the export template processor
alias. This is why how we will get this
additional button and when we will click
it this processor appropriate export
template job will be executed with this
particular processor and we should get
uh this dummy data there.
Okay. So this file then we need to
register it in a DI container and tag it
properly.
Create export template processor
and data converter tag this processor
properly and in our configuration file
specify this alias to export template
processor. And with all this we have
this fourth button here.
And when I click it, it will download a
file with those dummy data.
Okay.
And this is full name. And this is
exactly what I have in my
template fixture. So full name and
prefix. So this goes to this part.
Okay.
Is it more or less more clear? maybe
though.
Yep. Yeah, I got mine working locally.
So,
and uh according to how this is checked,
this is exactly
uh let's me show you the container.
Okay, so we have a compiler pass. So the
service is going to be executed when the
DI container will be built. And here are
here we are taking all the services
tagged with this tag and adding them to
our container and in this case this is
template fixture manager service that
keeps all the template fixtures there
and we are calling at entity repository
there. So let me show you the manager. I
think I have it opened here
and this is executing
add entity repository. So we're
basically adding this template fixture
to the list of template repositories
and then whenever we're trying to fetch
it we are first calling ensure
initialize that it's uh mapping this to
an array where the keys are our entity
classes and this is exactly this get
entity class that you have to have here.
Okay. So then we have an array of our uh
fixtures uh template fixtures like those
uh template repositories. Let's call it
this way. Um where key is a class name
and value is this particular element.
And then with this we can basically
fetch appropriate uh fixture by the
entity that we want to export as an
example.
Okay. If I so based on the fact that it
stores these sort of in a array, if
someone else were to create a data
fixture and also say they support
usernaming type class, would that cause
an error or would one just override the
other sort of silently?
I think an example would be if I wanted
to
override because I don't see any
any checks here.
Okay. I was just like if I wanted to
override some core one with a different
data fixture,
as long as I'm loaded later, I would win
because I I think if I were to extend
some sort of or maybe there's a
different way to deal with that.
There's no common case to extend the uh
this fixture because those are just some
dummy data. Uh but I assume that you can
just basically create a new one in your
bundle and tag it for the same entity
and because your bundle will be loaded
after your will basically will override
it right because here we are just reg
when registering we are just adding it
to the uh to the array as an element and
then we'll parsing this array and
just setting
it this way. There is no check for
duplicate. So I assume from the code
this this will just override the
original.
Okay.
So this is the way to override.
Okay guys, let's do 20 minutes break and
we'll start from the workflows topic
with the workflows topic. Okay. So get
up, grab some coffee.
See you in 20 minutes.
Okay guys, please let me know if you're
here.
Okay. So as some of you are then let's
start and the topic for today will be
about workflows. Uh so I will show you
in a moment uh where workflows are
listed in the UI how you can create it.
Um and basically what's this is about
uh so this is basically some
representation of a business process. So
we have an entity and we want to uh push
this entity through steps uh so this
entity can be in different states uh and
then do basically something here. So uh
first thing to remember is that workflow
is always bound to some particular
entity.
Uh and uh we have some uh already
existing workflows out of the box in the
system. Uh and basically the whole
checkout in the storefront is also a
workflow. Uh it's very big and very
complicated one uh big one with a lot of
transitions but it's still a workflow.
Uh so the idea is that we have a start
step then we have some other steps and
we are transiting our entity from one
step to the other. Okay. Um
and we sometimes have a final step. I
mean we can have multiple final steps.
Uh we can have one for the start step.
It's always one. We can have multiple
start transition. For example, for the
checkout workflow, we can start the
checkout from multiple places. So in the
storefront, you can start check out from
the shopping list. You can start check
out from the old order by clicking
reorder button. And you can also start
check out from quick order form. But
basically those are transitions. They
all lead to one start step.
Uh and in the back office we can enable
disable them.
Uh so uh basically this works as a state
machine that is assigned to some entity
where states are our steps. Then this
workflow can have some internal data. So
first of all we have this entity that
this workflow is bound to but we can
have some other additional uh
information like logged in user ID or
basically whatever you can think of and
those are our attributes workflow
attributes. Uh then whenever we change a
state so go from one step to the other
this is called transition. If we want to
do some additional um function some
additional things while transitioning we
have separate place for it and in our
case this is called transition
definition. So if you want to do some
additional business logic, send emails
or I don't know clone entity, process
something in a custom way, uh then
transition definition is for um this
code and additionally to that we have
also data restrictions. So we can for
example restrict some particular data uh
from the workflow or from some
particular step. For example, you can
have an entity that have status field
and you have 10 different statuses, but
you want all only two of them to be
available in some particular step. In
this case, the place for it is entity
restrictions. And I will show you all
those elements one by one in a moment.
But first, let's uh check how workflows
look in the UI.
So here under system workflows
uh we have a list of all available
workflows. Some of them are active some
not
uh and they are bound to some particular
entity.
A system means that this workflow was
created uh from a file and this will be
a YAML file and I will show you in a
moment how to create a workflow from the
YAML file. uh priority
self explanator
it's explaining itself then applications
commerce for the storefront so this will
be storefront workflow default this is
for back office so this will be back
office work workflow and then we have
two separate interesting parameters that
work as a tag so if two workflows like
this one this checkout workflow have the
same exclusive active group and this
works as a tag so if I have this then
they cannot be active at the same time.
So as you can see for the checkout we
have check normal checkout and single
page checkout and whenever I will try to
enable for example this one in the
process the other one will be disabled
because they cannot be both active at
the same time then we actually don't
have this situation in this example but
imagine that this is empty and we have
only specified exclusive record group
this will mean that they can both be
active and as a result you will have uh
two buttons. You'll be able to uh start
this or this. But if you start the first
one, the second will not be available
anymore. Okay. So this means that they
can be both active but they cannot be
both started at on top of of your
entity. only one of them can be started
and created at is created at
um
okay uh all those were created from file
from the y file if you create a workflow
from here because we can do this and I
will do this actually right now then the
system will be no because this will be
uh your workflow created via the UI uh
so what you can do from the UI actually
you are restricted it to only those
parts. You can create steps. You can
change you can create some transitions
and create a form popup when this
transition is happening. But actually
transition definitions are not available
from here. You're not able to do any
other business logic. So creating
workflows from the UI, you have only
very very simple options here.
Uh so let's create my workflow for the
contact entity.
No exclusive active group, no exclusive
record group. I need to select default
step, but I don't have any steps yet. So
I will select this in a moment. And I
want those steps to be ordered. So here
I can create a step. And let's say that
I will
cancel it.
I will in my workflow
uh create a workflow that will allow me
to fill in uh
like Facebook uh and all those uh
information about social media.
Um so let's do that. My first step
will be just in it first step.
Then I will have a step called Facebook
like this. And it's not final. I will
not have a final step to be honest
because I will create a loop.
then Twitter.
Okay. So I have three steps and I will
create a loop. So I will create
transition from init to Facebook, then
from Facebook to Twitter and then from
Twitter to init.
So let's add transition.
Uh first we will fill in the Facebook
data. So let's say add Facebook
from init step to Facebook step and
actually I want to fill in this Facebook
data when this transition is happening.
So the only thing that I can do here is
to display a form in a popup and I want
this to happen uh and I need to in the
attribute section specify what will be
in this form. If you don't specify
anything here, then the form will just
not be there at all. So I want to edit
Facebook field. Uh I will leave label
empty. So this will be taken from
translation. And then I will mark it as
required. Okay. Add. Apply. And we have
our first transition. Then I will add
second transition
at Twitter from Facebook to Twitter.
Also I want to have a form
where I will have
you specify Twitter.
Uh okay. And here also you have some
preview for the button. So uh the label
is automatically here created. You can
change the label title. You can change
the uh icon. Um and you have preview
here and you can change the
or
actually I don't want it. Uh so
basically you can do whatever you need.
Okay. And then I want this to be a loop.
So I will create a third transition from
uh Twitter back to init.
So let's add transition
call it
whatever from Twitter back to init and I
will not specify any attributes. So the
form popup will not be displayed because
I didn't specify any attributes.
And that's it. Right now I can select
default step to be an init. And down
here we even have our beautiful loop
displayed.
Okay.
So now I can save it.
And as you can see, it was created, but
it's still inactive. Uh, so I still
don't have any workflow here. In the
storefront, there is no automatic
displaying of any workflow. So in the
storefront, the checkout has custom
layouts, etc. And if you create any
workflow for the storefront, you will
need to manually display their uh
implement displaying it there. For the
back office, the situation is a little
bit different because when we have a
workflow bound to some entity on the
view page like here on my contact view
page, I will see a workflow bar here
just below this created at and so on.
So, it will be here. So, let's
inactivate this workflow.
And uh it's just asking me if in the
process of activating this workflow, I'd
like to deactivate any other and I
don't. So, I'll just activate this one.
refresh my page
and now we have a workflow bar here.
Okay.
And we can start.
Then we are in the init step. We can we
now have the seconds transition to add
Facebook. So I have appropriate button
rendered and I will just fill in this
data
and they will be saved to my entity. And
now I'm in the second step. I can add
Twitter
whatever value just for testing.
And I have the second social field in
here. And I can go back to init by
clicking revert.
Um, and that's basically everything you
can do from the UI, right? You are
restricted to all. That's the only thing
it that you can click from here. It's
creating this form popup and fill in
some additional data
um based on all the fields that you have
available for your entity.
Okay. So if you'd like to do something
more then uh and basically this workflow
exists only right now for me because I
created it and I would need to share
database time for you to have it. So
it's basically good to test something or
to demo something but normally we create
all the workflows
uh from code.
Uh and this definition says yes.
Yeah.
Yeah. Could you please repeat the last
two step after Twitter how it's de
action is being triggered?
I I'm not clear about it.
Can you repeat the question?
I'm not sure I understand.
In the last step there is a reboot uh
action, right?
Mhm. Yes. I just created that transition
to go back to init. Mhm.
So after adding the Twitter uh and I
think you click on somewhere for uh next
action is reward. So can you repeat that
flow again? I just want to
get it.
Now I have at Facebook, then I'll have
at Twitter, and then I'll have
revert. So I have basically three
buttons that goes to three transitions
that are here. Add Facebook, at Twitter,
and revert.
I just created a loop. It's a very dummy
workflow to be honest.
Okay. Okay. So I thought you clicking uh
after once once you're back to revert
state that means it's reverting back all
the all the actions which you g so far
because it's still
nothing is cleared out those data are
still here.
Yeah that's why I'm confused. So revert
action means what and not
the revert itself it's say reverting
back all the actions which you g so far
I just create a transition that is doing
nothing to be able to go to the first
step and to just be able to once again
fill the Facebook data for example
because I want to change it this way. So
the my uh last action it's not doing
anything.
Oh, okay.
This transition revert is just an empty
transition. This is this one.
Okay,
I can deactivate it to edit and show you
this transition is not
doing anything.
We cannot edit it. Ah because I'm not on
the edit page obvious
uh transition.
Okay. So this transition it's not doing
anything. It's not changing any
attributes anything and you cannot
basically from the UI you are not able
to clear anything out. You're only able
to specify that there will be some form
popup and what fields will be in this
form popup. So via the UI you're very
restricted. I called this action revert
but this is only reverting me to the
first step. It's not doing anything in
the process.
Okay. I thought revert means we are
reverting back what we already did. So
yeah
I can name this action whatever I want.
If you prefer prefer I can just go back.
Okay.
In in case if you want to skip step two
then can we do it? Okay. For that you
have to uh remove that required action.
Okay.
So if you want to create those step
differently for example create some
additional transition from init directly
to Twitter then just add additional
transition. So those arrows are
transitions and those are steps. So it's
totally up to you what transitions you
will create.
So you can go from init to Twitter. Um
and this
here when this transition is happening
you can display form popup and then here
you can specify if it's required or not.
But this will go to when the pop-up is
displayed then you will need to pass the
value in this form or you will be able
to go to the next step without filling
in in this value but that's the only
thing you can do from here.
Okay. Thank you.
I will cancel this and oh where is my
workflow? Let's activate it.
Okay. So, I have it back here.
Start it again. Okay.
Uh, okay. So, if you want to do the same
but not from the UI, which is the
preferable way.
Yep.
Sorry to jump in. I was just thinking
about something. Does it if you have
like multiple workflows, do they just
stack up at the top or is there like
does it sort of change the UI at some
point? Like if I had like 20 workflows
for contacts, would they
hide or something?
They will be one after the other.
Okay.
Uh we never assumed that you will have
more than two,
okay?
Or three, but they will be just one
after the other. And uh we have this
situation
for quotes.
Yeah, I can see certain things having
for quotes here.
Here we have one workflow and second
workflow.
Okay. Oh, there is a little collapse
thing on the left there.
Uh yeah.
Okay.
But still
helps a little bit.
One after the other.
Yeah. Well, at least you can collapse
them. So like if you did have a lot I
could see products and stuff like that
maybe having more for updating different
types of data so you don't have to look
at a giant form all the time.
Yeah. Yeah. So it it has collapsed but
it's still not collapsed by default.
Yeah.
So you will see like enormous amount of
workflows here.
Okay.
Okay. Another question.
Uh hi. Yeah, one little question. Uh on
your uh presentation, I've seen that uh
your workflow
um is presented as a bar and all steps
are rendered as bar. But when I do it
just a but just a button and status
um I don't see the the whole workflow
from step to step like you
okay you mean the difference with
displaying it
okay
same as what is uh
you have seen
it looks different what you have shown
to us on your Facebook flow training
flow
maybe because of that switch
I'm not sure I assume that that's just
new way of displaying it in the newer
version of or
I can check actually why not
Let's go to the contact. If this will
not be the issue, I will mean I mean the
reason then I will check. Yeah, that's
exactly the difference. So if you have
the switch to display steps ordered, I
will create to show you this display
steps ordered. If you have it selected,
then it will be in this way that you saw
me showing you at the beginning. If it's
not selected then just we display it
differently like this. So we are in this
step and then we have this button here.
Then we have this button and here we
have only our current step. When I click
at Facebook and submit we have now add
Twitter and we are in the Facebook step.
So this is different
with this switch.
Okay. Anything else?
Okay. And um one more question. What
happens when we update workflow add
extra step? Uh
[Music]
and uh what happens
to modify a workflow? You first need to
deactivate it. Here you saw that I'm now
in create workflow because I cannot edit
my current one because it's active. And
whenever you click this deactivate
button or workflows that are currently
started, oh, let me show you. I have now
started this workflow, right? It
started. It's in the middle of
somewhere. And when I deactivate this
workflow,
uh here I don't have it anymore. And
when I act now I can edit this edit
button was not available when this
workflow was active. And when you do the
edit for example add another step or
whatever and activate it back
then this workflow is reset. So the one
that was in the process is actually
deleted.
I need to start the workflow again. So
this previous is not available for me
anymore here. Of course, I didn't lose
any data or anything that happened
through this previous workflow, right?
So this data are still here, but I'm
just not able to continue this old
workflow because it's not relevant
anymore.
Correct.
Um okay
so let's check the definition it will be
inside the workflowsy file inside the or
subd directory of resources config so it
will be autoloaded by our workflows
actually in this case it will not be
autoloaded
uh because every time you do any change
in this uh workflows yam you need to
additionally execute this command which
is called our workflow definitions load
and this command will read all those
files and apply appropriate changes to
database. Then uh in a database we have
this definition and application it's
loading it from a database. So behind
this there is a workflow definition
entity and it has its table in a
database where we keep this definition
defined in the YAML file.
Uh there is also a way to debug existing
workflows uh in case you want to check
uh what's there. And let me actually
execute this.
Okay.
So,
okay. So, if I just execute the comment,
I will have a list of all the workflows
that are available. And as you can see,
my workflow training uh workflow um
basically gets some
random numbers to make sure that the
name of the workflow is unique because
the name of the workflow needs to be
unique. Uh then this is my label. This
is the entity that my workflow is bound
to. It's custom because I created it via
the UI. Uh and it's for the back office.
If you want details on your workflow,
then you can add the workflow name at
the end of this command. And now we have
all the definition. As you can see, for
this small workflow, it's kind of long.
So we never use this command to copy
this to my YAN file because this is
exactly what we will create in the YAML
file manually from code. But it has a
lot of additional really not needed
elements here. It's like extremely too
long. It has so many options that you
don't need to specify. So I will show
you in a moment a simple workflow that
we have
in oral and you'll see that it will be
basically way shorter, way simpler and
easier to understand. Uh so I will not
explain you from here. I will explain
you on the real example. But in case you
need to dump current workflow definition
to make sure that some change is there,
uh this is how to do it.
Okay. And then uh for this we have the
workflow definition entity that has its
table in a database. Uh so right now let
me switch
uh workflow
workflow definition
and I have all my workflows. This is the
one that I created and here uh the
configuration this is basically uh what
we saw here.
Okay. So it's kept uh it's serialized
and kept here in the configuration
um
column.
Uh then we have uh separate translation
file for our workflows.
So the translation file looks exactly
the same like the message just here just
the domain name is different. So instead
of messages you need to have workflows
then language then yam and for this we
actually are usually using the command
that is available to dump uh
translations for our workflow. Uh so
after we create a workflow and load it
then we dump translation because that's
the fastest way to create translation
file. And this command is also
generating some unnecessary data, but
it's easier to go from here than try to
figure out what your translation strings
needs to be.
Okay. So, let's
let me do it for
my workflow.
Okay. And this will be my translation
file. It's actually short. Uh but
basically all you need to specify is
labels. Uh button label will be a label
if you don't specify uh different. So
all those elements you can basically
remove. And this is how to start
creating your translation.
Mhm.
There's some technical reason why it's
in a separate translation file or does
that is that just a decision that was
made?
Um the reason is basically to not have
so big translation files and that's it
because the messages yam file it's
already very very big. There are only
some parts that we divide it in separate
files like workflows. We have JS
messages but still messages yam files
can be really really big. So that's just
some decision that we want to have it in
different domain name.
So just an organizational thing.
Um okay and as you saw I could and I
actually added simple definition from
the UI but uh I was very restricted with
options. There's nothing really fun uh
with adding it via the UI because they
cannot do almost anything. Um and we as
developers will add those definitions
from YAML file
and the example that we are talk about
it's uh opportunity flow. So we have a
workflow on our opportunity um entity
and I will show you all those elements
one by one in a moment uh as well as the
whole definition. So we'll get to this
element in a second.
Uh let me just tell you one last thing
before we do it. Uh whenever you click
the button to start the workflow behind
the scenes there is a workflow item uh
created for you. So this workflow item
represents our the state of our entity
in current workflow. Okay. So it stores
all the data not related to entity. So
our workflow is bound to some entity. So
we kind of have this entity there and if
you want to have some additional data
except the entity that this workflow is
started for and then they are all kept
in the workflow item uh entity. It has a
data field and inside those data we keep
all the additional information and this
data field is serialized and there is a
workflow item entity behind this. Uh so
we do have also a table for this. So I
started already the workflow for
Deborah. So let's check workflow items.
Okay. Workflow items.
The
Uhhuh.
The the last one
I was here. Okay, something is not
correct for me.
Just let me check it.
Looks like it's back to the init step.
Or does it not clear those out when you
finish the workflow?
Ah, because I deactivated it. Okay, so I
need to Yeah, good catch.
Let's start it and let's actually go
somewhere.
Okay. So now I have my workflow item. So
this is the one uh this is my workflow
name. It's bound to entity contact ID
52. And this is exactly where we are at.
And
what we have more we don't have any
additional data. And we are in step 53.
Um, so let's
check uh steps
53. It's uh step Facebook and it seems
that it's correct because I'm on a
Facebook step.
So that's that's happening behind the
scenes. This workflow item was created
for me and it keeps the current state of
my entity in this particular workflow.
Okay. So, how to define the uh workflow?
Yes.
Is that workflow item tied to that the
specific user as well or is it shared?
No, it's shared.
Okay. So, anybody that goes to that
contact will see this workflow in the
current state
in the same state.
Okay.
It's global, not per user. Workflows are
global, not per user.
Okay. That would be actually
maybe not customization but
it could be problematic.
It couldn't be problematic because
usually we use workflows because we for
example want some person with particular
role to be able to transit it uh at the
beginning to fill some data and then the
other person to continue this workflow
and do something more.
Yeah.
So this is the main kind of idea behind
the workflow. That's why it's like
global not per user.
Okay. I just wanted to verify that.
Okay.
Yeah, sure.
Uh okay. So, first if you want to create
the workflow uh we need you need to add
the workflow yam file. As you can see,
we never put the whole definition in the
main file because uh
you can have multiple multiple workflows
in one bundle and then this main file
will be just a mess. And the second uh
issue is purely developer.
It's because our awesome Oro plug-in
doesn't work in workflow file. It's
highlighting it with an errors and if
you use uh imports then uh it works.
Okay. So
flow let me find this in code.
Okay. So how this works first inside
resources config oro we have a workflow
yl file and if I had this in my bundle
you'll see that IDE will highlight this
whole file for you. It will be
unreadable. Uh so here we basically
actually in our sales bundle we already
have two workflows. So putting the
definitions here is just a mess. Uh so
we are basically um adding definitions
in separate files and here just
importing those files. So for the
opportunity flow uh this is how we
define a workflow. This workflow's name
space can be put directly in here.
Right? So I can paste it here.
So in the workflows name space you need
to specify a workflow. Here is the name
of your workflow. This needs to be
unique globally unique. Uh and if you
try to load this file with the command
and you will create a duplicate name it
will just throw you an error and tell
you that this workflow already exists.
Um so you need to name your workflow
whatever you like. Remember it needs to
be unique. Then our workflow is always
bound to some entity. In this case, this
is an opportunity entity. Uh our
workflow will will uh can have some
additional data. But most of all, it has
our entity as uh an attribute. So you
can reach our opportunity
when the workflow is happening. So we
need to specify the name of this
attribute and our entity will be
available under this name. Okay. Uh
start step and in case you need some
exclusive active groups or uh record
groups this is how you can specify it.
Uh also you can specify to enable
uh workflow by default.
Um sure if I can find easy example
anywhere here.
Uh okay
that's it. Defaults active true. So
whenever you will load this workflow
with uh the command it will be
automatically activated.
Uh applications default means uh back
office. If you don't specify anything,
it will be um back office by default.
And then we need to specify other
elements. Uh and basically you can put
them all here if you're sure that your
workflow is short. But if you prefer you
can also put them in separate files and
import here. So all those files accept
imports.
Okay. So regarding the defining the
workflow that's it and now we will talk
about all those elements
like steps attributes and so on.
Okay. So step uh this is a state of our
workflow. Behind this there is a
workflow step entity steps uh are
ordered and they know about possible
transition from the step to some other.
So step doesn't know anything about the
transition that leads to it but uh knows
everything about available forward
transitions
and workflow may have one step start
step and uh many final steps and uh let
me open the steps file.
So how to define a steps under workflows
namespace? This is the name of my
workflow exactly the same as here on the
level that we specified entity and
others the same level we specify steps
section and in the steps section you can
specify as many steps as you want. Uh
this is the step name. So this is
important. You need to name it um I mean
you can name it as you like but later on
uh this will be treated also as an
identifier for this step. So this is our
name. Then you can specify order
and uh you can specify allowed
transitions. Right now we don't have uh
we didn't define transitions yet.
Um
so actually first you create steps then
you create transitions and then you
specify which transitions are available
from this step. So from step order I
will uh I have three available
transitions. So I will have actually
three buttons on my entity and as you
can see we are trying to name the steps
and the transitions the way that
actually by the name I will tell you
what it's doing. So from open I have
develop. So here actually maybe it's not
so obvious what it's doing. So probably
it's just filling uh data but close one
I'm pretty sure that this is step uh
this is transition that leads from open
to one close lost this is from open to
lost and uh from one and lost we have
reopen transitions which are probably
going back to open. And I will tell you
that I will show you those definitions
uh in a second. So you will see exactly
to which step this transition leads to.
Okay. So we have three steps
and we have allowed transitions from
this step. Here I will have three
buttons. Here only one and here only uh
one reopen button and that's it. Easy.
Uh then we have attributes. Uh so uh as
you remember when I was uh creating the
workflow from the UI, I also added a
form popup and there were inputs for
Facebook and Twitter there. Uh so in
order to be able to manipulate data
during the workflow is happening. Um you
need to put those values to the
attributes section. So in order to be
able to edit Facebook value, I need to
edit this Facebook uh as an attribute.
So this attributes are data of my
workflow and I will be able to work on
with this data during uh the workflow.
Uh and we have entity and our entity
fields and we also have some can have
some additional uh data and this will be
stored in the workflow item.
Um so my attributes in when I define
attributes I can say that it's referring
to a field on my entity or it can be
just some not related to entity
attribute
example
again we are under the workflows
namespace and under the opportunity flow
workflow. This is the same here and on
the same level as entity as steps we
have another section called attributes
and here we specify all the attributes.
So those are attribute names and if you
specify property path to existing field
on my entity then under this attribute I
will actually have a value from my
entity. But you can create like this
close username which is not related to
any value on the entity. It's just
basically a string. You'll be able to uh
fill this with some value. But this will
not be like automatically saved
anywhere. And this goes to my field on
my entity. So I'll be able actually with
this attribute to edit a field on my
entity.
And that's the only difference. So
either property path or just basically
some standalone attribute not linked to
my entity.
Uh yeah
sorry. So um can we assign multiple
entities to this or only one?
No workflow is bound only on to one
entity. So the idea of workflow is to um
process some entity through states.
Okay. So if it is customer and addresses
uh addresses are part of the customer we
should um
you have a getter for addresses. So if
you have a workflow on the customer
entity then basically you have all the
customer fields addresses as well.
Yeah. So, it sounds like if you want to
kind of have a workflow, manage multiple
entities, it's possible as long as
they've got a relationship defined. Is
that sort of the idea? It's always you
always need to think about workflow that
is changing one entity and if the
process of changing this entity requires
you to create uh a case or opportunity
in the process then we're actually
handling this uh in the transition
definitions. I will show you in a moment
that you can do pretty much anything
there because we have there a list of
actions that will be happening and this
behind this there is a PHP code so you
can seriously do pretty much anything.
Uh so um so basically it's bumped to one
entity but in when transition is
happening you can do all the magic you
need.
Okay. Yeah, that'll be interesting to
see how that looks.
Mhm.
So basically the definition uh for the
steps is simple
uh for the transition will also be very
simple but you will see that in
transition transition definition you can
do like anything.
Okay. So how to reach the attributes? Uh
for example in the transition
definitions or anywhere in the workflow.
Uh so all those attributes are um
available via the data container. Okay.
So we have data container and we have
the status attribute. Then you can use
the shortened version. This is this one.
But do not use this version with a dot
because this dot will trying to fetch a
status variable on our workflow item. So
we have data variable on our workflow
item uh you saw this column in the
database even but we don't have a status
so you will see exception. So the
shortened version to fetch some data
attribute it's this one without a dot.
Then um on our workflow item we always
have some one additional container which
is called result and this is here for
temporary data. So in case you need some
um when the transition will be happening
and you will be doing some custom C
calculations or some custom business
logic and you need somewhere to put uh
temporary data because your next action
is basing on this then this is exactly
the place that you can use. Those data
will not be saved anywhere. Uh so it's
available only in your transition when
you already transit to a next step.
this con container is emptied.
Um and according to and also connected
to attributes we have a second um kind
of type of attributes that are called
called variables. And the difference
here is that um attributes it's just
basically available from the code. And
if you want uh user to be able to set a
value
uh for this attribute then you need to
create a variable because this is um
attribute that I can change from the UI.
Uh we access them exactly the same way
as attributes.
uh and how to define it
on the same level as steps and other and
attributes. We have a section for
variable definitions and variables and
this is the name of my variable.
So here uh you need to specify some
additional elements because it will be
displayed in the UI. Then you need to
specify the type, default value and uh
form options for the UI. Okay. Uh so
this actually I cannot show you this
because alternative checkout it's
already a separate se separate package
but we do have one uh workflow on this
list that has a variable and if it has
then you will see this cog icon to
configure. Okay. So those do not have
variables but this one has it's back
office quote with flow with approvals.
And if I go to configuration you'll see
that here I have very simple variable
it's only boolean accepts true false. So
you'll have this variable available in
the checkout and based on this what I
select here. So if it's true you can do
something if it's false you can do
something else. So in case you need some
the configurable attribute go with a
variable. And this actually
goes to goes to goes to
price overrite trigger
approval variables. Okay, so we have
only one variable it's boolean by
default true and we just have a tool tip
there tool tip value it's taken from the
translation.
Okay, so this is the definition of this
variable that we now have here and later
on you can fetch this variable exactly
the same way we fetch attributes. go
this way and based on its value do some
different things.
And last element before we go to
transitions and transition definitions
which is actually the most interesting
part of our workflow
uh is entity entity restrictions. Uh so
here you can restrict um modification of
some attribute fields. As I already told
you previously this example that you can
have um like status field and you can
have 10 statuses but you want only two
of them to be available in some
particular step. Um, so this is how you
do it. And you have three modes here.
Full, disallow, and allow. And by
default, it's full, which means that
some will be will not be available at
all. If you specify disallow, then you
need to specify the disallowed values.
If you specify allow, then you need to
specify allowed values.
and example
uh under my workflow name we have
section for entity restriction and we
can have multiple restrictions
uh so here I'm specifying that the
status field of my opportunity
um I not allowing to change status to
one or lost okay so u imagine that here
when I'm transiting
and adding Twitter. Imagine that Twitter
is a drop list of 10 elements. So, it
will be only eight. Okay, I will not
have those two
um elements on the list whenever I
transit. And that's basically
all or you can disable the whole field
um there. So in case you will not have
it in the popup in the form
even there and that's basically it.
Okay. So let's switch to transitions. Uh
so transition is actually our
representation of changing a state. So
if we want to push our entity from one
step to the other, we need to create
transition and it always leads to one
workflow step.
uh we can have multiple start
transitions. So as I told you the
checkout is started from the order by
clicking pre-order button or from the
quick order form or basically most of
the cases from the shopping list. Uh but
it leads to one start step.
Um when this transition is happening we
can have a form with attribute fields
and this is exactly what we are seeing
here. So this form with attributes this
is defined inside transition.
Uh you can also specify ACL restriction.
So you remember ACL's we can uh restrict
our transition with some particular ACL
and then um
restrict the user from being able to
click the button uh if this user's role
doesn't have appropriate permissions.
uh and then also here we can have some
additional actions and conditions but
those parts are actually defined inside
transition definition that I will show
you in a moment. So first let's see
transitions.
So here we have everything that I
actually was able to create via the UI.
So the definition so my transition
uh like this one and we can have a form
pop up and that's it. All the other
parts are in transition definitions and
that's where the fun part is happening.
So for my step you can define uh this
default start step. So whenever you
start um
the workflow and you want some
additional things to happen then
application by default will execute this
transition.
If you don't need anything to happen
when workflow is started, just omit this
uh transition. And then here we see
develop close one and close lost. And
this directly goes to let me
to this. Okay. So we have step open and
available transitions from open step are
develop close one and close lost. And
this directly goes to this names. Then
uh for the develop step two is open. So
as I assumed this transition will just
go from open to open and will do
something but will actually not change
the step.
Uh then we have a second transition
which is which is close one. It's step
to one. So this is what I assumed. This
transition will lead me from open to
one. And this is step two.
Then we have a setting is unavailable
hidden uh which will mean uh should we
hide the button if we are not able to
click it.
So because we can hide the button or we
can display it but it will be disabled.
Uh then we can set some additional
elements uh for this button like icon
class
and then the important part we need to
specify transition definition. It can be
empty but it need to be specified and I
will show you in a moment what we can do
inside the definition. Uh for now uh
just please notice that we have this
naming convention that whenever my
transition is named close one then
transition definition will be named
closed one definition. We have this
naming convention because it's really
much easier than to find something in
code um when it's named this way.
And in my uh transition, we can also
specify the form for this popup under
the form options. So under the attribute
fields, we can specify what fields to
display. Uh so you can have actually
here we have like some custom elements.
So we will have two elements in our form
popup and close date uh only has
additional constraints. It cannot be
blank. Uh but it will be displayed based
on the type. So Oro will automatically
guess what
to display in this form. So here it's a
date. So it probably will be some date
picker based on this variable type.
Okay. So this is close date. uh on our
entity.
So it will take the type from entity. Uh
if you want to render it, do not let Oro
automatically guess uh how to render
this attribute. So if it should be input
text input or daytime picker or
whatever, you can basically specify
manually which form type to use.
And if you don't want to edit to modify
anything, you can always go with close
revenue and tilda. Then it will just
automatically guess everything.
And to be able to to have those
attribute fields rendered in a form, do
not forget that you need to put this
as an attribute.
Um
yep this is added as an attribute and it
leads to some field on my entity and now
I can modify this attribute
here. Okay. So remember that if you want
to work with some data modify some data
with this form type they need to be uh
added to attributes section as well.
Uh and if you want to do something uh
when the form is initialized, normally
we don't, but there are some
situations that you want to do
something. There is a specific section
called form in it. And here uh is where
you actually the first time um see
those actions.
Uh so the form in it as well as our
transition definitions and all those
elements uh are built from actions. So
if you want to do something you need to
represent it with this short
um
action behind this there is a PHP class.
Okay. So this element this element all
this is an action. we reaching the
actions by the aliases and this is the
alias of my action. Uh and those are in
a background those are PHP classes that
are executing uh appropriate methods. So
those methods can um
you can pass
some variables to those methods and
those methods can return something. So
for example this action uh it's request
anom entity I will show you in a moment
that the PHP representation for it. So
when you call it this way uh you're
actually executing some method. So if
this method uh requires some fields you
will need to pass them and then if this
method returns something it will return
it. uh and he by the attribute you
specify where to return uh the value. So
the return value of this method will be
saved to my opportunity status. And here
we are basically fetching um some enom
because opportunity status is a separate
entity. Uh it's an enom. Uh so we need
to fetch it by some identifier. This is
an code and this is identifier. So at
the end we have our enum and we are
saving it to the status field on our
entity and this is what it did and this
is actually the core of our transition
definitions.
Um so let me actually go further.
So regarding the transitions that's all
you can do.
There's really not much. So you just
define step two
uh transition definition and if you want
some form in a popup you define it this
way. If there needs to something needs
to happen when the form is initialized
then you have a section here and you can
put any action uh in here. What about
those actions? They are really really
connected to our transition definitions.
So let me switch to transition
definition.
Uh here you have a place where you can
do anything. You can put conditions here
and based on those conditions you can to
do different actions. Okay. And we have
four
sections inside transition definition.
Pre-actions, preconditions, actions and
conditions. So the first two are
executed before the button is rendered.
So we are checking preconditions and if
those preconditions are met then we are
displaying the button I mean the button
is active because you can also decide to
display it but uh make it uh disabled
right so if the preconditions are met
then the button is rendered and you're
able to click it. If in the
preconditions you want to check
something but you don't have this data
you need to fetch it. Then there is the
section for pre-actions. So inside
pre-actions you can do anything for
example fetch some values that you will
later check in preconditions
and now the button is rendered. Then uh
the second part is happening when you
click the button. Whenever you click the
button, we are checking the conditions
and if the conditions are met, then we
are performing actions.
So if you don't want to do anything
additional, uh you still need to create
transition definition but it can be
empty and also those transition
definitions can be reused. We are
actually not using this uh because as I
told you we'll always creating um
transition definition
with this definition postfix
but uh in theory and in practice you can
use the same transition definition in
multiple transitions.
So what we have in this transition
definition
uh let's
yeah under opportunity flow under
transition definition section let's
check this close one definition okay uh
this is my close one transition and it
has some additional actions happening
so whenever we are in open step and we
click the close one button button. This
transition will be executed and it will
execute
also the transition definition and we
will be redirected to the one step. So
what will happen inside this transition?
It's defined here
and here is my close one definition. We
don't have any prections or any
preconditions. So this button will be
displayed always. But whenever I click
it, it will check the conditions. Uh as
you can see behind all this if it's
condition and if it's action behind all
this there is a PHP class and this is an
alias of this class and as you can see
we are naming those aliases the way that
you can just basically by the name
um tell what's going on. So I don't need
to check the implementation to tell you
that this condition is checking if some
value is empty or not. Uh so here we
need to pass uh one parameter and we are
checking the close date. If it's empty
if it's empty then we are doing actions.
If not we are displaying this message
and we not proceeding to actions. Okay.
So first we check the conditions. If
they are met we go to actions and in
those actions you can do anything.
Um, you can send email, you can display
flash message, you can clone entity, you
can do pretty much anything. And if the
actions that are defined in Oro are not
enough, you are also welcome to
implement your own actions. And how I
will show you in a moment because I have
it on a separate slide.
Uh, so for now what we are doing here
just by the names of the actions. I'm
not going to PHP code yet. Here we are
fetching some enom entity and this is
actually opportunity status with one
identifier and this method returns the
enum and we are saving this enum to
opportunity status.
Then we are finding some not anom but
some other entity. So we need to specify
which entity and by which identifier.
And again this find entity method
returns this entity and we are saving it
to the close reason
uh variable. This is also on top of uh
opportunity.
Uh then we are assigning a value. So we
are assigning one to this particular
field.
And we have also very nice action called
call service method which allows you to
call any method from any service. You
just need to specify the service name,
the method name. If the method uh
requires some attributes, you specify it
in the method parameters section. And if
this uh method returns some value, here
you specify where this value should be
saved to. So with this four actions, we
actually change the status of our
opportunity to one. Um
then we fetched opportunity close
reason. We changed it to one and then we
changed the probability of our
opportunity to some value based on the
status.
So we actually modified our opportunity
with those four little actions.
Um,
okay. So, let's see those actions. As
you already noticed, this is a small
block of functionality that can have
parameters and we also can have
conditions there and all those actions
are PHP classes that are added in the DI
container with this oro action tag and
they extend abstract action. So, let's
see one of those.
Let's say assign value.
Okay.
Assign value.
Okay. Maybe here.
I actually wanted to open it in
workflows, but
Okay. So with my aura plugin I just
controlcll cllicked it and it lead me to
implementation of this particular
action. So it extends abstract action
and uh the method that will be executed
when you specify this
it's going to be execute action and here
you put all the implementation. So we
are setting some value because this is
assign value action and then we need to
add it to a DI container uh tag it with
or action action and give it an alias
and this alias is used here
and that's it.
By the alias we using this particular
class and executing this method. If this
method returns a value in this case it
doesn't but if it returns a value there
will be here this uh attribute part
and that's basically it.
So if you want to create some custom
action and I can show you that we have a
lot of actions already available for
you.
Uh okay. Call method. Assign value. Copy
values. Uh date methods. Create entity.
Redirect method. Translate flash
message. Seriously, a lot of
um like common actions. And then we also
have some
custom like for the payment. We have
also actions here. So in case you need a
custom action, you need to create PHP
class that extends abstract action
and uh implement the execute action add
it in the DI container tag it with this
tag and provide an alias because with
this al alias later you'll be using it
from here and similar things are our uh
conditions. So you'll see for example we
have those standard conditions like and
or equal.
Okay. So under this there is also um PHP
class
that it's just doing
the is condition allowed method. So here
is the implementation
um of the check that this particular
condition should do and similar uh to
the actions you need to add it to the
container just the tag now it's
different it's our action condition tag
and also here you can specify the alias
so with this alias later we will use
this condition in our y files so this
goes to it if you have a pipe like this
one it means is that you have two
aliases. So you can refer to it by at
equal or at the shortened version
however to read this.
Um
and if you want to create your own
because the list of our conditions is
not enough although it's really really
big extendable and or not empty has
property has value less and so on and so
on. You can create a custom one. Just
create this class.
Tag it as or action condition. Give it
some alias and um
conditions class needs to
extend
abstract condition from our oral
component.
Um and that's basically all regarding
the actions uh transitions and what you
can do here. So taking this into account
in this actions which will happen after
you click the button you can do anything
you can reach all the uh opportunity
uh fields. So you can modify for example
address on top of the customer or you
can do some additional data like create
a case when something happens or send
email or whatever.
Yep.
Um have a question about conditions. So
these conditions are happening on back
end or front end or which level it
it's all happening in the background
whenever you uh whenever the transition
is happening.
So in the storefront in the UI you only
have button.
Whenever I click this button in the
background in the application we will
check conditions and if those conditions
are met we will execute all those
actions but you will not see it because
it will happen in the background when I
click this button something is happening
in the background and I'm redirected to
the next step.
So all this is happening in the
background.
um that I cannot spell a message. I just
the only I can do is just to forward to
error step or
you can display a message because we
have an action to display a message and
this is um
it's called
Um,
flash message.
Maybe this will be easier to understand.
There is an action to display a flash
message. This action, it's a PHP code in
the background. It's just adding a
message to Symfony Flashback. And by
default, whenever the page is refreshed,
uh, the new messages in Symphony
Flashback are displayed to the user. So
if you want to display this nice popup
that something happened successfully or
some error then uh this action is
available for you
to pass the message. If this message is
not flat but consists of some parameters
like here we have the amount parameter
in this particular example then you can
also pass this amount parameter value
and type success means just that this
flash message will be a success. So it
will be green. um errors are red and
others I influence blue or something.
Okay. And uh other question um so when
we send this request to make transition
and we see that it doesn't that um
we cannot do the transition. How can we
notify custom? What what what happens
here? So by default uh you have only
displayed one error that this transition
is not available and that's it what you
have in the UI right so all the bugs
will be in logs
um
so if there is a bug it will be in log
and uh if it's not
how can I throw this uh throw this error
message or how it happens I I just throw
exception on the candle
I I cannot understand.
Um so if you want to communicate with
the user then you use flash message and
display a flash message. So the one
that's coming from Symphona flashback.
So it will be seen uh in the storefront
right but normally we just want to
display that something went wrong and
the real error it's in your logs. So all
the errors will be
I understand wait. So about the section.
So we have uh um an order ordered list
of actions which are executed one by one
and we see that um we cannot proceed and
uh or maybe on the step of conditions we
we see that uh we we should throw an
error and stop transition.
Um
how how should we
the conditions
are only to do the check. So here you
cannot uh like the only error you will
get in the storefront in the application
is that this transition cannot be uh
executed. Okay. So if you click the
button and those conditions are not met,
you will only get um information that
transition cannot be done. Uh so
so it will be rised automatically. Yeah.
If conditions not met then uh I got
there. Okay.
And if you want to do something like
this that for example leave conditions
empty and then in actions check
something and if something happens then
display a message. So here in the action
section you can also uh add conditions.
Um not sure if I have oh here
okay so we are actually those are pre-
actions but the idea is the same. So we
are doing executing some method and here
we can also pass conditions. So we are
in actions but we can do for example uh
this when some value is true and
something other when some value is false
or they say that cancel action
is it does it cancel the
no no those are executed and here you
only communicate and decide if you want
to do something or not. So basically the
only check is in the conditions. If the
conditions are uh met then all the
actions will be executed one by one or
for example in this case we have plenty
of actions but this one will be only
executed from time to time because it
has additional condition but this
condition will stop only from this to
happening. It will not throw any error
or anything. Uh so this may happen or
may not but we'll always go further.
Um and uh in case of exception in one of
these uh
the full transition will be rever
reverted to the beginning. No action
will be at the end done because it's all
or nothing.
Okay, that's what I wanted to
understand. All or nothing. Okay. Mhm.
So if any exception happens anywhere
here during those actions, you will just
have an error in the storefront of
details in logs and nothing will be
done. Your um entity will be in the
previous step in the step that you
started from.
All right. Thank you.
Okay.
Any other questions to actions and so
on?
Okay, if not guys, let's do the break
because uh yeah, it's been already a
long time. Uh so I still have um some
other elements to show you because those
actions are not only for the workflow.
They can be used in many many places but
that's uh complicated too complicated to
explain it fast. So let's do a break. 15
minutes will be enough for you and we'll
be back in 15 minutes and finish this
topic.
Guys, are you back?
Okay,
I see one uh Nick Vir.
Okay, let's wait moment.
Okay.
Okay. So, we're almost over here. Uh
yeah, let's continue then.
Um
uh okay so those actions and those
conditions that I've just shown you they
are not created for the workflow itself.
There are some local functionalities
that can be also used in uh other places
and I'm going to show you two more
places where you can use those actions
and conditions. Uh there is the slide
about translation but we already talked
about it that it's in separate file and
this is how to dump it.
So those actions and conditions can be
also used in uh operations and processes
and those are two functionalities uh
from Oro. So those are custom
functionalities that we created.
Uh so for the operations
uh
this is basically how the delete button
appeared uh on your data grid and on
your view page uh with this operation.
Uh so basically they are defined in the
actions yaml file. Sorry for some reason
there's no name here. I will fix it on
the next slides.
Uh so they are defined in the actions
yellow file uh and it's inside resources
config oro. So this will this is oro
functionality. So basically inside
resources config oro and those actions
will be automatically loaded for you in
this uh in the actions yl file you can
specify some particular operation uh and
this will be interaction with the user.
So at the end this will be displayed as
a button and you'll be able to click it
and this operation can be added to a
route or to a data grid. So for example
the delete button was added to all data
grids. Uh so this is how you get the
delete button on your data grid and for
some specific routes.
Uh and at the end this is a button or
basically a link. So this is some
element that allows you to interact with
the user and user needs to perform some
action which is clicking basically and
here we also use actions and conditions
and I will actually actually uh present
this to you on one example called or
order mark as shipped. So if you go to
our orders
and open any order
uh there is this mark as shipped button
and this is not a workflow bar. This is
just a button displayed here and this
particular button it's actually going to
mark our order as shipped when I click
it. And this implementation sits inside
our this is an operation.
So this operation I will close all this
is called oro order mark as shipped and
let's see how to
uh create it.
So we are inside resources config oro
I'm inside actions yl file and here
we need to specify all our actions
inside operations namespace and you can
have multiple you can have many of them
and uh the name needs to be unique
then my
or order mark as shipped. So uh this
particular element
will have some label and label is mark
as shift which is
correct.
Then
uh it's enabled because you can enable
disable it applications default this
means back office and then you specify
where this particular button should be
rendered and here we specify that uh on
some particular route which is oro
orderer view route that leads to or
order view page and we are on a orderer
view page and you can double check the
route here it's or order view. So this
is how we said that this particular uh
button should be rendered here. Uh then
we are also restricting it with some uh
ACL. So if I don't have access to update
orders then I will not see this button
at all. Right? Because I cannot update
order which makes sense to not be able
to mark it as shipped. You can also pass
some additional options. Um for example
an icon and this is exactly this check
icon. here
and then here we have actually
preconditions.
[Music]
So you have also four elements
actions uh pre-actions preconditions
conditions and actions exactly the same
as in workflow. So preconditions go
before the button is rendered. My
precondition here is that the status of
my order needs to be open. Okay. So
status of this order is open. So I see
this button. But when I now go to some
other order that it's not open. Let's
list all the orders
uh archived for example. Then this
button is not here because the
precondition was not met. So the button
is not even rendered.
But when actually the precondition is
met and the button is rendered. So let's
go back to any open order again. this
button is rendered and that's it for
now. Then whenever I click this button
whatever is defined inside the action
section will happen. So what we are
doing here will we are fetching the
shipped status and saving it to internal
status of our entity. So order status
will be changed to shipped. We are
flashing this entity to the database. So
we are saving this and displaying fresh
message info type. So it will be blue
and the message will tell us that order
with this ID has been marked as shipped
and this ID parameter this is our order
identifier. So let's see if this
happens.
My status is open
and my order identifier is this. So I'm
clicking mark as shipped.
I have this message order has been
marked as shipped
and my internal status was changed to
shipped page was reloaded and this
button is not here anymore because it's
available only for open orders. So with
this little
fragment,
we just created
uh a button that will change a status
for our order and display a flash
message.
So with really short amount of code, you
can do some
nice actions.
And if you want to check the all
available
elements for our actions here you have
documentation. So basically from the
most important parts are
uh the entities that you want this uh
operation to bound to. If you specify
entity class uh this will have be
displayed on the entity view page. So we
can also go with a route. Uh and you can
specify.
Okay. Why it's not here?
You can also specify for all entities.
For some reason it's not in the
documentation,
but you can also specify that this is
for all entities or for all data grids.
Then for the button you can have some
additional options. You can even bind JS
component to it.
And
from the most important parts are
basically our preconditions, conditions,
pre-actions and actions. Uh
and because those operations are also
rendered on the data grid, you may have
uh you may want to specify some
additional elements. But most of all,
you will basically play around with
whatever you have in actions,
preactions, preconditions and specify
where to put this particular uh button
with uh this part. If we have multiple
buttons uh on the same page like we have
here,
uh then you can also specify order for
them.
Um
yep.
And the second element that you can use
those actions and conditions in are
processes. So process uh this is also
custom thing in Oro and uh this is kind
of a event listener that is configured
from YAML. Uh so we can um create a
process that will be executed when the
entity is created, updated, deleted or
some specific fields of this entity is
updated. So same as for entity event
listeners but also here we can specify
the chrome definition whenever this
process should happen. The configuration
file is inside processes yl file in the
resources config oraura. So it is
autoloaded by one of our bundles. And
here the um nice thing uh that will be
actually hard to implement with the
event listener because event listener is
executed exactly at the time when entity
is edited or updated. Here you can
specify the time shift. So for example
you can create a process that will
listen on order
creation
and
No. Uh for example, you can create a
process where uh that will listen on the
customer user creation. So whenever you
register in the storefront there is
customer user uh created for you and you
create a process that listens to
creation of customer user entity and for
example time shifted with the 60 minutes
and after 60 minutes check if this
customer user didn't cling click the
link from email they resent some email.
Okay, so this is hard to implement with
uh event listener but here you can
basically implement say send email and
just specify time shift to be 16 minutes
and here to do all this to check if the
customer user uh is confirmed or not and
to send additional email or do some
other um actions we have actions and
conditions block. So uh for the
operations and for workflows we actually
had four blocks but here we don't have
anything that happens before because we
are not rendering any button or
anything. So basically whenever
some trigger happens we are checking
conditions and if they are met we are
executing actions.
Uh let me go to documentation. It has
actually really nice
um
list of elements. So inside processes uh
YAML file under the processes name space
we have two sections. First you define
some process and then you define where
when those this process should be
triggered. So this is a process name and
uh it can have some label because in the
UI in the back office we have actually a
list of all the processes.
If it's enabled it needs to be bound to
some entity. Uh if we have multiple uh
definitions bound to the same entity
then you can order them. Exclude
definition is usually our definition. So
it will not be triggered once more
whenever this is still happening. And
then whenever whenever triggers happens
we are checking preconditions and here
you can use all the
conditions uh all the aliases that you
already saw in workflows and in
operations
and uh
when those are met we are executing
actions. So the only difference is the
difference of those blocks. Okay. The
conditions are called preconditions and
actions are called actions
configuration. And here you can do
pretty much anything.
So use all those actions in here.
Uh and in the triggers section for my
process. Uh here you have actually
multiple. In real life it's never this
way. It's just documentation. So we
listed all the options you have. Uh so
you can create a trigger that will
listen to create event on our entity
uh or update event or update event but
some particular field.
And then if you like this to happen uh
through the message Q then uh
if you want this to have a time shift
actually this needs to be pushed through
the message Q. Okay. So the message is
created instantly but this message on
the message Q have delay of this time
shift. Okay. And in this case you need
to specify cute true and time shift uh
60 and this is actually seconds. So for
hours this will be 3,600
but yeah basically it's by seconds
and also you can trigger it with the
chrome definition. So that's the
standard chrome definition.
uh and the list of those processes uh
are available here
in the processes
menu. So you have all the processes
defined that's not a lot of them only
16. And what is really nice also from
here comparing to creating an event
listener if you create an event listener
in code it will be executed always. And
to disable it, you will need to
basically change the code and um deploy
it or while implementing it create some
additional configuration value
somewhere. With process you
automatically get the activate and
deactivate
uh method. So you can just basically
come here deactivate this process and it
will not be happening.
Okay. Uh any questions to operations or
processes?
So one last additional uh feature
regarding the workflows themselves are
scopes. Uh so you can specify a scope
per workflow. Um so scope this is a set
of parameters that define define current
state of your application. So this
consists of a website customer ID
um and so on. So for example you have a
workflow checkout workflow and you want
to have totally separate checkout for
different website. Uh for example you
have a B2C site and a B2B site. So you
have two websites and you want one
checkout workflow to be available for
the B2B and totally other checkout
workflow to be available for the B2C
which makes sense because usually B2C
checkouts are a little bit different
than B2B. So you can do it with a scope
scope field this will be for us website
because ours we will um differentiate
those workflows by the website. So here
we will have a website and here we will
pass the website ID. If I do this uh my
workflow will be available only for this
website this particular and then we
create other and specify websites and
this other ID and this way you will have
two checkouts to check out workflows and
each of them will be available only for
one website.
Okay.
Uh best practices. So when you will be
creating uh actions and using those
actions, you may at some point see that
your action block it's really really
big. So here it's actually very short
because we have only three actions. But
you may have a situation that this is
becoming very very very long. Uh so
sometimes it's better to create your
custom action instead of using a lot of
those. Okay. So creating custom action
do not forget that you can do it because
it's it's good choice in many cases.
Also sometimes it may be faster instead
of a listener event listener. And
remember that this process can be time
shift and you can enable disabled from
the UI. So it has a lot of benefits
uh comparing to normal uh standard
entity event listener. Uh if you want to
uh modify the workflow existing one for
example you will at some point for sure
uh modify checkout workflow uh start
from creating a copy and enabling the
copy and then putting customizations on
top of this copy because uh this way you
will not face BC breaks uh and when you
will be doing upgrades which will not be
for you anytime soon but believe me when
we do upgrades
um
upgrading checkout is actually the
biggest um problem.
Uh so we always uh do a copy because
then we have our working checkout and if
we really want to update this checkout
with some new functionalities that uh
were added in the newer version then we
uh plan some time for it and do it. But
if we don't, we will still have our
checkout because we created a duplicate
and it still will be working. And the
checkout beside the catalog list, it's
the most important part of our course.
And the if you want to double check if
something was um applied correctly, you
have this command to the buck workflows.
Also from me do not forget every time
you modify the workflow uh do not forget
to execute this oral workflow definition
load wherever whenever you do any change
to your workflow definition in the AM
file remember to execute this command.
Okay,
any questions?
So, let's switch to practice. We'll
start today and finish tomorrow.
Uh, and in the practice, we want to
create actually really simple workflow.
It's not going to be on usernaming type
entity.
It's going to be on the user entity.
Okay. So at the end
um
if you go to user entity
uh you will have this workflow here.
Okay. So we will create a workflow and
bind it to the user entity and this
workflow during this workflow we will uh
want to fill in the name data. So in
first step we will fill in name prefix,
first name, middle name, last name, name
suffix and in second step which is
actually uh optional uh we will uh
select usernaming type.
Okay. So first step will look like this
at the end
and second step
will look like this. And this is
actually optional part. So we'll see if
if we'll do it. Uh normally it will just
lead to another step and do nothing.
Uh okay. So instead of trying to figure
out what's written here, let's see the
diagram. It's easier. So I want you to
create a workflow bind it to the user
entity. Um and this workflow should have
three steps. Name not is not
initialized. Then we'll have name part
set and then naming type set. Then I
want you also to create three
transitions. First transition where we
will set name parts and this transition
from first step to the other. Then
second step to set naming type
and then uh reinitialize name transition
and this transition will be available
for from step second and third and it
will lead back to the first step and
actually do nothing.
uh after you create this uh so let's
start first from creating steps and
transitions
and do not do anything inside
transitions.
Then
inside the first transition I want you
to show in the form popup those five
name part elements and make sure that
first name and last name are required.
So exactly what let me go to
reinitialize name. So this transition
first transition will show a form popup
with five elements and two of them will
be required.
Uh hint use form options for that you
have also plenty examples uh on the
slides from the theory. Uh and that's
basically it. If you have enough time uh
then also for the second transition
um render there just one drop list
filled in with the naming type.
And a hint for this is that you will
need to use a custom form type and
Symfony will help you with that because
Symfony has this entity type that you
can use and to this entity type the only
thing you need to pass is the class. So
this entity type needs to know uh what
class to show and uh by which field. So
at the end you will have a
one element this is entity choice and
we're listing usernaming types and we're
showing them by titles
and I can submit it
and it was but this is an optional part
in let's see if we'll have time for it.
Uh okay we have uh like 25 more minutes.
So guys please start and we'll continue
tomorrow.
Uh yeah just start from creating a
workflow. It can be empty one just you
know clicking the buttons doing nothing
nothing just going from one step to the
other and then add some additional
elements to your transitions.
And please open slides from the email.
Okay guys, do you have any questions uh
so far? Anything that I can help you
with?
Nope.
Okay. So uh yeah, tomorrow we'll start
from continuing this practice. So thank
you very much for today and see you
tomorrow.
Bye guys.